.github/check-list.md, before:

# shadcn/ui + Tailwind v4 Project Setup Checklist

This checklist follows the steps in `shadcn-setup.md` to ensure your project is fully configured.

---

- [ ] **Project Initialization**
  - [ ] Vite + React + TypeScript project created (`pnpm create vite@latest . -- --template react-ts`)
  - [ ] Dependencies installed (`pnpm install`)
  - [ ] Remove all content from `src/index.css` before adding Tailwind imports

- [ ] **Tailwind CSS v4**
  - [ ] Tailwind CSS v4 and @tailwindcss/vite installed (`pnpm add tailwindcss @tailwindcss/vite`)
  - [ ] `src/index.css` updated with Tailwind imports and @theme variables

- [ ] **ESLint Setup**
  - [ ] ESLint and recommended plugins installed
  - [ ] `eslint.config.js` created and configured

- [ ] **Prettier Setup**
  - [ ] Prettier installed
  - [ ] `.prettierrc` and `.prettierignore` created

- [ ] **Husky & lint-staged**
  - [ ] Husky and lint-staged installed (`pnpm add -D husky lint-staged`)
  - [ ] Husky initialized (`npx husky init`)
  - [ ] `.husky/pre-commit` runs `npx lint-staged`
  - [ ] `lint-staged` config added to `package.json`

- [ ] **shadcn/ui CLI**
  - [ ] shadcn/ui CLI initialized (`pnpm dlx shadcn-ui@latest init`)
  - [ ] CLI configured for React, Tailwind, and correct paths

- [ ] **Component Utilities**
  - [ ] `src/lib/utils.ts` created with `cn` utility
  - [ ] `clsx` and `tailwind-merge` installed

- [ ] **Path Aliases**
  - [ ] Path aliases set in `tsconfig.app.json` and `vite.config.ts`

- [ ] **Add Components**
  - [ ] shadcn/ui components added (e.g., button, card, dialog, input, label)
  - [ ] Components appear in `src/components/ui/`

- [ ] **Dark Mode**
  - [ ] `src/components/theme-provider.tsx` created for theme switching
  - [ ] Dark mode CSS variables set in `src/index.css`

- [ ] **Example Usage**
  - [ ] `src/App.tsx` uses shadcn/ui components and theme provider

- [ ] **Project Structure**
  - [ ] Project matches recommended structure (see shadcn-setup.md)

- [ ] **VS Code Integration**
  - [ ] Recommended extensions installed (ESLint, Prettier, Tailwind CSS)

---

For detailed steps, see `.github/shadcn-setup.md`.

- [ ] **Dark Mode Support**
  - [ ] Theme variables and dark mode in `src/index.css`
  - [ ] `src/components/theme-provider.tsx` created

- [ ] **Example Usage**
  - [ ] `src/App.tsx` uses shadcn/ui components and theme provider
  - [ ] `src/main.tsx` imports `App` and `index.css`

- [ ] **Scripts & Linting**
  - [ ] `package.json` scripts: `dev`, `build`, `preview`, `lint`, `lint:fix`, `format`, `format:check`, `type-check`, `type-check:watch`

- [ ] **VS Code Integration**
  - [ ] Recommended extensions/settings applied (optional)

---

Check off each item as you complete your setup!

Commit message:

init commit
- React + TypeScript + Vite project setup
- shadcn/ui integration with Tailwind CSS v4
- Figma design token integration via MCP server
- Dark/light theme provider with localStorage
- ESLint, Prettier, and Husky code quality setup
- Semantic color system: Clementine (primary), Lochmara (secondary), Vida Loca (accent)
- Complete development workflow with pnpm
- Comprehensive copilot instructions for AI agents

.github/check-list.md, after:

# shadcn/ui + Tailwind v4 Project Setup Checklist

This checklist follows the steps in `shadcn-setup.md` to ensure your project is fully configured.

---

- [ ] **Project Initialization**
  - [ ] Vite + React + TypeScript project created (`pnpm create vite@latest . -- --template react-ts`)
  - [ ] Dependencies installed (`pnpm install`)
  - [ ] Remove all content from `src/index.css` before adding Tailwind imports

- [ ] **Tailwind CSS v4**
  - [ ] Tailwind CSS v4 and @tailwindcss/vite installed (`pnpm add tailwindcss @tailwindcss/vite`)
  - [ ] `src/index.css` updated with Tailwind imports and @theme variables

- [ ] **ESLint Setup**
  - [ ] ESLint and recommended plugins installed
  - [ ] `eslint.config.js` created and configured

- [ ] **Prettier Setup**
  - [ ] Prettier installed
  - [ ] `.prettierrc` and `.prettierignore` created

- [ ] **Husky & lint-staged**
  - [ ] Husky and lint-staged installed (`pnpm add -D husky lint-staged`)
  - [ ] Husky initialized (`npx husky init`)
  - [ ] `.husky/pre-commit` runs `npx lint-staged`
  - [ ] `lint-staged` config added to `package.json`

- [ ] **shadcn/ui CLI**
  - [ ] shadcn/ui CLI initialized (`pnpm dlx shadcn@latest init`)
  - [ ] CLI configured for React, Tailwind, and correct paths

- [ ] **Component Utilities**
  - [ ] `src/lib/utils.ts` created with `cn` utility
  - [ ] `clsx` and `tailwind-merge` installed

- [ ] **Path Aliases**
  - [ ] Path aliases set in `tsconfig.app.json` and `vite.config.ts`

- [ ] **Add Components**
  - [ ] shadcn/ui components added (e.g., button, card, dialog, input, label)
  - [ ] Components appear in `src/components/ui/`

- [ ] **Dark Mode**
  - [ ] `src/components/theme-provider.tsx` created for theme switching
  - [ ] Dark mode CSS variables set in `src/index.css`

- [ ] **Example Usage**
  - [ ] `src/App.tsx` uses shadcn/ui components and theme provider

- [ ] **Project Structure**
  - [ ] Project matches recommended structure (see shadcn-setup.md)

- [ ] **VS Code Integration**
  - [ ] Recommended extensions installed (ESLint, Prettier, Tailwind CSS)

---

For detailed steps, see `.github/shadcn-setup.md`.

- [ ] **Dark Mode Support**
  - [ ] Theme variables and dark mode in `src/index.css`
  - [ ] `src/components/theme-provider.tsx` created

- [ ] **Example Usage**
  - [ ] `src/App.tsx` uses shadcn/ui components and theme provider
  - [ ] `src/main.tsx` imports `App` and `index.css`

- [ ] **Scripts & Linting**
  - [ ] `package.json` scripts: `dev`, `build`, `preview`, `lint`, `lint:fix`, `format`, `format:check`, `type-check`, `type-check:watch`

- [ ] **VS Code Integration**
  - [ ] Recommended extensions/settings applied (optional)

---

## Check off each item as you complete your setup!

Once all steps are completed, verify your setup by reviewing the checklist in this file and comparing it with the detailed instructions in [shadcn-setup.md](./shadcn-setup.md). Ensure all configurations and components are correctly implemented.
